---
title: Lord of the Woods
layout: plotline_overview
description: The King of the Woods is a corrupted Fae who was tainted when the land was and entered a deep sleep for 10 years. During the Winter he has awoken to find his lands “under siege” by both the Bloody Fist and now the new population of adventurers in Woodhaven.
---

- The Lord of the Woods is the “herald” for the Nightmare Fae War plot to be ran longterm in Woodhaven.
- The Lord of the Woods is a corrupted Fae who was tainted when the land was and entered a deep sleep for 10 years. During the Winter he has awoken to find his lands “under siege” by both the Bloody Fist and now the new population of adventurers in Woodhaven. 
- Gor’Math’eal is his true name, a once proud Knight of the Verdant Hedge, he was sentenced to die by his King Lor’eath-mar the Dreamer for “abandoning his duties” in service of the court. (Stole the Fae Green Dragons last egg, was tricked by the Shadowed Veil Court) In his anger Gor’Math’eal hunted and killed a great protected Stag of the Verdant Hedge, Cern’arus the Dawnstrider. To this day Gor’Math’eal wears the great stags horns and skins as his clothing with a gleaming 2h sword across his back. His king was enraged and outcast him to Woodhaven’s material plane.
- Upon his arrival, he was found by a small group of Elves and Barbarians, blinded by his majestic True Form, the people were enthralled by him and pledged their service to him. When he awoken, he was surrounded by a group of woodland creatures, dryads, black unicorns, treant spirits, and humanoids. He addressed them as the “Lord of the Woods” and demanded their loyalty, still in his True Form they bowed in oaths of servitude.
- The Lord of the Woods started as a creature of change and hope for the forests of Woodhaven but he became consumed by his rage when his memories came back upon his awakening, casting his followers into madness and dark devoted loyalty. They patrol the woods at night looking for Lost and wayward souls to bring into the “Circle of Blackened Thorns”
- The Woods have become terrifying at night cause these soulless creatures stalk hunting for 
new members to join or be converted forcefully. As they advance throughout Woodhaven proper, the Lord of the Woods seems to move and appear, at-least his visage, in various locations at night with no rhyme or reason. No one has been able to track his location or lair, most assume he burrows into the ground or becomes a blackened corrupted tree at sunrise to sleep while his minions work till sundown comes. He can exist during the day but is weakened by the sun since his power thrives in darkness and on corruption.
- The Lord of the Woods followers will capture the citizens of Woodhaven and “harvest” their soul dreaming energy, sending them back to their lives changed and almost lifeless. This is what the Lord of the Woods feeds on while he spreads his corruption across the lands. A group of mages tried to repeal his corruption but even formal magic purifying the land wasn’t enough to stop his advance. It burrows into the roots of the trees and the fertility of the land to reap his nightmarish power. 
- Most Fae are harmed or injured by Awaken spells, but if someone hits the Lord of the Woods with Awaken magic, it will send him into a berserk rage killing anything around him that isn’t devoted to him without mercy. People having sleep spells cast on them in his presence are trapped within a nightmare of restless terror and helplessness. The Lord of the Wood thrives on casting Charm and Fear Spells to either do his bidding or run in fear of his presence.
-Rumor has it the Lord of the Woods can be reasoned with but a blood sacrifice of a life must be made before him willingly, once the spirit fades to resurrect or permanently dies, the Lord of the Woods will grant them audience and parley for a short time. Greater offerings of sacrifice will grant you further time and favor with his majestic self, but if he is angered during his audience then he will be most unkind about your death.
- Followers of the Lord of the Woods wear Green and Black Eye Makeup that spread out across face like tree branches and leaves, lips are painted one black and one green aswell

