---
title: Morumbria (Shadow of Death)
---

by Mildred of Callenthorn - Shadowbane Adept Evandarr Melorian Guild, April 599

We now know that the creatures that are invading our plane originate from a nearby plane that has come into conjunction with Tyrra, and which we we have named Morumbria (Shadow of Death). Named so because each time the Plane of Tyrra eclipses the emmanations of the Plane of the Shadowbane, these vile creatures proliferate within the region of the Umbra (eclipsing shadow). They use this Umbra as a bridge to Tyrra where they come to battle The Shadowbane on territory in which they can survive. It takes anywhere from 5 minutes to a day for these creatures to come to full strength on this Plane. The journey is draining and each reacts differently to it. Thus, their abilities can vary widely at first and the information provided below reflects their full capabilities.

The Morumbrians come in a number of forms only a few of which are known to us at this time. However, each seeks in some way to multiply their strength by gathering Tyrran sentients and using them as a supplementary fighting force. They gather such forces in many ways. The most basic is to use the mechanism of infection which results in transforming a creature or person in to a Morumbrian of the type which infected them. Morumbrians that can use this mechanism are the less powerful varieties and are not very intelligent. These include the Morumbrian Shade and the Morumbrian Phantom. When a Tyrran is infected by a Shade they become what is known as a Striker. This is a unintelligent, suicidal creature that attacks any living being that moves. It is important to note that it has been found that if one freezes and does not move in the presence of a Morumbrian Shade or Tyrran Striker it will not be able to discern their presence. This takes a certain amount of mental fortitude on the part of the person being attacked, but has saved many a life. Also note that Strikers keep their fighting skills but cannot cast magics and if the infected Tyrran had Rogue abilities these are lost.

The Morumbrian Phantoms are a bit more capable. They work together, can communicate and plan an ambush and and will hold back until the advantage is theirs. By these actions, however, do not believe that they are afraid of dying as they are not. They are simply designed by their masters to make sure if they do die they do not do so alone. Tyrrans infected by a Phantom are therefore more cunning and are nicknamed Stalkers. Although Phantoms do not cast magics, Tyrrans infected by one may keep all their original casting, rogue and fighting skills along with the additional abilities provided as a result of the infection. Both Phantoms and Stalkers can discern a Tyrran in motion or still, will show some skill in hiding themselves and in setting up ambushes. Phantoms have a strong affinity for canine creatures and will frequently infect packs of wolves. The result, which we call a Targ, is a deadly and cunning enemy. A small pack of Targs has been known to bring down large groups of well armed Tyrrans.

Fortunately, creatures created by infection from a Morumbrian Shade or Phantom cannot infect others. The act of infection must be performed by a Morumbrian over a period of time about equal to a three count and must be completed to be effective. If the infection is completed it will immediately stabilize the person even if they were bleeding to death. It does not work on someone who is already dead, even if they could still be revived with a life spell. Both types of infecting creatures can perform
 two levels of infection. The harder takes effect immediately, stabilizing, and transforming the victim. The easiest, takes longer to have effect. We have observed that it takes about three hours. In either case, if the person us infected by a Shade, then they can be cured at any time if they are wounded to the point of bleeding to death then given first aid or magical healing. If the person was infected by a Phantom, they can be cured if they are slain and given a life spell or successfully resurrect.
The more intelligent Morumbrians create and control the Shades, Phantoms and presumably other creatures of Morumbria. In addition, they use force or seduction to control Tyrrans more subtly. We have chosen to call these beings Morumbrian Wraiths. We know much less about them other than the fact that they come in many forms, can manifest at will and have varying levels of abilities. We do know that all the Morumbrian creatures that we classify as Wraiths have certain characteristics in common. They channel Morumbrian magics and they can sense the presence of those that channel Shadowbune magics. Close proximity to each other will set the eyes of a Monumbrian glowing and the face of a person who channels Shadowbane magics glowing.

We have had some recent experience with one type which we have named a Morumbrian Shadow Wraith. This particular wraith is a sentient, non-corporeal being that can use diabolical means to infiltrate and control a Tyrran, making them into what we call a Shadow Slave. Then, acting through these initial slaves, and in the guise of Tyrran sentients, they can use reason, promises of power and wiles to gain the willing cooperation of other Tyrrans or to wreak destruction undetected or not attributable to Morumbrian creatures.

Of the many types of Wraiths inhabiting Morumbria, the most fearsome and powerful is referred to as a Wraith of Darkness or more specifically, The Morumbra. We believe this being is the source of the magical power of this plane. It is certainly a power from which Morumbrians actively channel and their incantations call upon The Morumbra in the same manner as we call upon The Shadowbane. We know little of these creatures other than dark stories from within the Melorian order. We do known that they have artifacts which they use to forcefully manifest their power or the power of their lesser peers through a sentient Tyrran. Such Tyrran unfortunates are called, Dark Shriekers, after the terrible cries they make while doing their Master's fell work. We have a name for Tyrrans that willingly allow The Morumbra to use this artifact upon them and bind them to a Morumbrian Wraith. We call them Umbriants and they are unclean, a dark evil in Tyrra that should be searched out diligently and destroyed without mercy.

This is the extent of the information which we have been able to gather at this time. We expect that over the next months and years our experience with these creatures will greatly increase. We ask all Melorians to send summaries of any information they uncover regarding the Morumbrians to the Pallantine Guild outside of Erandarr City where we may compile it for the use of all.
